Add a first draft of the code annotations specification. (#173)
WebAssembly/tool-conventions: CodeAnnotations.md

# Code Annotations Framework

This document describe a convention for  encoding a number of WebAssembly features (here generically called "code annotations") that don't affect the module semantics.
The goal of this convention is to make it easier for tools that work on WebAssembly modules to handle and preserve  such code annotations.

Note: This is a work in progress

## Code Annotation

A code annotation is a piece of metadata attached to a position in the code section.

Its meaning depends on the particular type of annotation.

Discarding a code annotation does not change the semantics of the module.

> A tool that transform the module must drop any code annotation that it does not know or know it can’t preserve.

Reviewer: I wonder if we can be any more precise about this or not. Is it only transformations that change instruction offsets that could invalidate annotations? Is it safe to e.g. add/remove imports or exports, rewrite constants, etc? Seems like it could be?

Reviewer 2: I agree, I think a more precise way to say it is "A tool that transforms any function must drop any code annotation that it does not know or know how to preserve". Since we are specifying by function indexes, any change outside of the function should have no effect on the offsets inside the function, so we only need to drop the annotation if that specific fucntion changes

Author: I think that it depends on what kind of content we want to allow in the annotation data.
An annotation could in principle refer to stuff outside of the function. Random example: annotating call_indirect with the index of the function that is most likely being called.
I don't know if such annotations are actually useful, but if we say that an annotation can only contain data "local" to the function itself, we prevent them from existing.
The upside is that tools have a better chance in preserving unknown annotations (and I mean, completely unknown. A tool may still not really know how to correctly update a branch hint, but still know that it is "local").

Reviewer: Well I wasn't actually imagining preserving the distinction between function-local and not; basically for the reasons you mentioned. I was thinking of transformations that don't change any code offsets of any instructions. That would probably mean preserving function indexes too (since I don't see how you could do that without adding or removing instructions). The question I guess is whether anything potentially useful is left.

Reviewer: I guess if a tool doesn't understand annotations at all, then it has to just drop them all... but in that case it probably doesn't even know it needs to drop them. Maybe nothing can be done about that 🤷 

wrt imports and function indexes above, I actually think that you can add/remove imports without altering function indexes (because the function index space is defined by the function section, and not the import or export sections).
But your analysis is better and more general in any case: since the spec as written places no restrictions on what an annotation can refer to, any modification to the binary could potentially be unsafe.

It would be nice if we could start by defining something conservative and then adding to it later if we find use cases. Unfortunately I'm not sure if that will work here. If we start with restricting what annotations can refer to, and then add to that set as we find a use case, then transformations which assumed the "MVP" rules may break those new annotations. Conversely if we start by allowing anything, and then later we want to write a transformation that is only safe under some restriction, the new transformation could break existing unknown annotations.

Maybe one practical thing to do is just to allow anything, and for "known"/documented annotations, have them explicitly specify what binary properties must be preserved (in addition to the full semantics that they would usually document). That would make it easier for tools that don't want to do the work to actually update them, to at least know whether they needed to drop them or not.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me. I guess that means that the current text is OK and we can land this. If folks want to talk more about this issue, the near future probably isn't too late.
```suggestion
A tool that transforms the module must drop any code annotation that it does not know, or knows it can’t preserve.
```
